This week, I received only one email.  This is a result of my completion of my profile.  It was from my inside sales representative, Marisa Martino, PhD.  It was a welcome email with her contact information and a promise that she is here to help me with my specific needs.  In fact, the email touches specifically on the workflows and products that I’m interested in.  It looks personal and thoughtful, but I know it is generated automatically from Thermo Fisher Scientific’s Marketing Concierge team.  This team provide “packaged” tools for sale representatives to send to customers and prospects.  They work in partnership with the marketing automation team.  They develop custom email content based on the customer’s or prospect’s interests.  I think it’s amazing that its automated but looks genuine and is relevant. 
Twitter (@thermofisher).  TFS has 41 Tweets since class started.  The content is related to instrumentation products like Ion Torrent (for genetic sequencing) and ICP -OES (a spectrometer for characterizing fluid samples).  In addition, they are using this platform to generate awareness of upcoming webinars and tradeshows.  Personally, I think this is about as useful as Twitter can be for this customer base.  The scientific community doesn’t usually flock to Twitter for product information.  Twitter is being used appropriately for awareness campaigns, but I’m not sure how effective it is.  I personally can’t stand Twitter.  It’s become a platform for inarticulate and unthoughtful rants.  I think the lack of investment and engagement on TFS’s part reflects this.  Almost no engagement from the customer side.
Facebook (@thermofisher).  TFS has 33 posts since class started.  I observed many of the same content that was on Twitter, but not as repeated and more detailed.  There is also engaging content links to How-To videos and other education content.  Since FB enables more thoughtful and detailed content, it’s much more conducive to business and marketing activity.  The last post is an institutional awareness campaign regarding how TFS is engaged in water conservation and how its important to scientific research.  Engagement marginal, with an average of 12-15 likes per post.
LinkedIn (Thermo Fisher Scientific).  TFS had 42 posts since class started.  As a social media platform for professionals, LinkedIn is being used similarly to Facebook.  I did observe much more direct customer engagement (Likes and Comments) than I saw on FB.  The content was the same as Facebook.  For example, the post regarding water conservation had 13 Likes on Facebook and no comments, but they had 108 Likes and 2 comments.  Both posts were sent at the same time and date.  Other similar content had the same disparity in engagement.  The average number of likes went from 21 Likes on the lower end up to 179 Likes.  I noticed that content that was educational and helpful to product users were most effective at engagement.
YouTube (Thermo Fisher Scientific).  There were about 20 new post to YouTube.  TFS heavily leverages YouTube as a platform for education.  It’s an endpoint for their other digital media campaigns.  Emails, Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter all go back to YouTube content.  It’s the closer.  Some of the content is well produced and glossy, but many are simple and bordering “hokey”.  As an example, the “Keep it simple scientist…’ video (https://youtu.be/No4skB5lYiI ) was filmed with an iPhone and edited using iMovie.  By the way, the “scientist hands” in the video are mine.  It had 1254 views, which I would consider decent.  The content was very specific to an application and a workflow, so I wouldn’t expect much more.
